Previously on "All Rise"...
Lola Carmichael's
upcoming tenure
as L.A. County's newest
Superior Court judge.Shut up.
You brought that woman
into this courtroom--
Hey! Hey!
Hey.
It's so weird--"Thanks
for shooting someone," but...
It's part of the job.
Rule number 1--
avoid trials.
With any luck,
we'll get some plea deals
and live to fight another day.
And where does justice
fit in?
Close second.
I cannot accept any plea,
given what I know.
We're going to trial.
It is on the record
that my dad was a grifter
who fixed races,
ran poker games.
♪♪♪
♪ I've been waiting
all day...♪
Please remove
your belt, shoes...
Take something for it.No, I'm fine.
Sleep is important.Not as important
as my clients.
You're not sleeping
because your apartment
has turned on you.
My apartment has not
turned on me.
What would you call it,
then?
Insomnia.Because it turned on you.
No, I--No. It's--
No,
I can't get comfortable.
I just--I thought,
with Joe finally gone-gone,
that I'd be able
to relax, read.
Emily,
buy some new furniture,
slap some fresh paint
on the walls,
buy a bread maker.
None of that
will help me sleep.
Okay, so then
knock out a wall.
Hmm.
Knock out two walls.
I've got a sledgehammer.
[ elevator door dings ]I'll bring it over,
open a bottle of wine.
You have no idea.
It will feel so good.
You'll sleep like a baby.
Amongst the rubble?[ giggles ]
You know one of the things
I love about being a judge?
Guess. Mark: Private parking.
- Nope.
- Your own bathroom.
Recess.
You love recess?
No, I love saying it.
It's like I'm a kid again
and I'm up there
and I'm dressed as a judge
and I get to decide
when recess is.
Lola, you're not
dressed up as a judge.
You actually are
a Superior Court judge.
I need to pee. Recess.
I need time to think.
Recess.
You know what I can't believe?
The Clippers got Kawhi! Ha!
LeBron is still my guy.
I feel so sad for you.
I need a new mattress.
I know that.
Something fresh
with no lingering,
you know, indentations.
I love a new mattress.
You know
what I really need?
I need to be by myself.I love it.
I need to know what being
by myself feels like.
But not for too long, Em.
Right now I need to get
ready for my trial.
These things
need a time limit.
How's your dad? Have you
spoken to him yet?
Since I punched him? No.
Mark,
he's your father.
That's how it goes
with me and Vic.
Punch each other in the face
every 10 years and then...
Recess.
Exactly.
Hmm. How's it going
with the old guard?
Honestly, I think
I'm winning them over.
Hold that.
You got this?
Got to get to trial.
Go good.
♪♪♪
We need to talk
unauthorized furniture.
Good morning, Sherri.
This is a perfectly good
bookcase.
For "Game of Thrones."
I'm sure someone
around here will want it.
Your Honor...
Call me Lola.
Never gonna happen.
Let's give it a try.
It's a fun name to say.
Good morning, Sherri.
Good morning...
Your Honor.
First up,
grocery store trial--
assault.
Right.
Judicial assistants
need to maintain
a respectful distance
from their judge,
thus protecting the important
hierarchical traditions
without which
the system would collapse
into chaos and muddy muck.
Keep moving things forward,
Your Honor.
Our calendar is a mess.
We're behind.
I've had to push cases
to other judges,
and they don't like it.No kidding.
I had to ride
in the elevator alone.
Be ruthless.
Don't tolerate dawdling.
Or backtalk.
No backtalk. Understood.
♪♪♪
Man:
That's a total fabrication.
It's just not true.
They attacked me.
They claim I was threatening,
that I attacked them.
I was just trying
not to get hurt.
And yet, despite the fact
that you clearly posed
no threat
and that, according
to the police report,
the grocery store
security guard
sustained zero injuries,
somehow you're the one
who's been charged
with felony assault.
Objection.
Is there a question?
Ms. Lopez,
is there a question?
Why were you
in the store that day?
Are you familiar
with the term "food desert"?
I am, but why don't you
tell the court?Objection, Your Honor!
Overruled.
Go ahead, Mr. Guerra.
It's an urban area
with no access
to good quality fresh food.
The customers around
this store are poor,
many elderly so they can't
afford to go somewhere else,
and this store routinely
stocks tainted meat,
expired dairy.
Your Honor, this is
an assault charge,
not a seminar
on urban food issues.
Duly noted.
Counsel, continue.
Mr. Guerra.We were gathering data.
We work for a neighborhood
action group...
♪♪♪
We were monitoring...
the best "before" dates
and taking pictures
of the spoiled food
and placing
warning stickers on it.
[ whispering ] ICE.
And the manager knew that.
And he sent
the security guards
to intimidate us.
Mr. Guerra,
is everything okay?
I'm not sure,
Your Honor. I--
Excuse me, sir,
man in the black coat,
stand up, please.
I think you'd better
identify yourself.
Sal Soto, ma'am.
Purpose of your presence
today, Mr. Soto?
I work for U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement.
ICE. Seriously?
Didn't you get the memo?
You are not supposed
to be in here, sir.
Your Honor--
Bailiff!
Whoa![ speaking Spanish ]
No!
This is a restricted area!
♪♪♪
Hey!
Stand--Hey!
Hey!Nowhere to run.
There's nowhere else
to go.
It do--Uhh!Back!
You stop!
No! I said stop!
Mr. Guerra, you need
to stop running now!
I can't go back!
On your knees!
Hands behind your head.
If you let them take him back
to Nicaragua, he'll die.
Kimani, take a breath.
You do not want
to get arrested.
Bailiff, you need to keep him
in the building.
He still has rights.[ speaking Spanish ]
Hey! Listen up!
This is still my house,
and we play by my rules,
and my rules say--
The federal government--No backtalk!
This young man deserves
his day in court,
and I intend
to give it to him.
Put Mr. Guerra in holding
so Ms. Lopez can speak
with her client
privately.
It's okay, baby, it's okay.
We're gonna figure this out.I know. I'm sorry.
I love you.
Recess!
ICE is in your courtroom.
Walked right in
like he owned it
in the middle of the defense
presenting her case.
The governor signed a bill
last year.
I thought we won this battle.
We did.
Hey, I need to talk
to the L.A. County Sheriff.
He's not gonna take the call,
so you just have to
threaten him a little. Thanks,
[ sighs ]
What are the charges?
Felony assault. First offense.
No warrants out on the accused.
He's undocumented.
From Nicaragua.
It's in his file.
This doesn't make
any sense.
How did ICE
even know he was there?
Somebody tipped them off.
Or they're planning
something bigger
and are softening the ground
with the least experienced
judge in the building.
Where's the defendant now?
Courtroom holding.
We're in recess.
Judge Carmichael,
your court is now a legal
and political minefield.
Please endeavor
not to blow anything up
until I can get
some answers.
Got it.
Don't blow anything up.
How exactly do I do that?
Remain impartial.
And don't let any of this
affect the outcome
of the defendant's trial.
[ phone beeps ]In other words,
get your house in order.
Sheriff,
Supervising Judge Benner.
It's been a while.
I'm a valet
parking attendant.
I was at work.
I work at Bestia on 7th.
[ whispering ]
Bestia is so good.
And what did you witness
at 10:34 p.m.?
I had just brought
a Tesla Roadster around.
The customer was inside.
When I exited the vehicle,
a young woman approached
suddenly,
got in, and drove away.
She stole it.
And do you see that young woman
in this courtroom today?
No, sir, I do not.
Excuse me?
Mr. Kothari, you testified
in a preliminary hearing
under oath--
I was mistaken.
I identified
the wrong woman.
Okay.
Let's go back over this
because mistakes
can be costly.
You gave a detailed
description to the police.
I was mistaken.
You picked her
out of a police lineup.
I was mistaken.
I identified
the wrong woman.
Let me remind you,
Mr. Kothari,
that perjury is
a criminal offense.
Deputy District Attorney
Callan, knock it off.
The witness answered
the question.
[ sighs ]
Anything further,
counselor?
No, Your Honor.
Nothing further.
Witness may step down.
No other witnesses,
Mr. Callan?
The state rests,
Your Honor.
Your Honor,
motion to dismiss.
Penal Code 1118.1.
The People have failed
to show any evidence
my client committed
the charged offense.
Granted.
Case is dismissed.
Defendant's discharged.
Adjourned.
♪♪♪
Mr. Lambert, hey,
quick question.
How much
does a witness cost?
Excuse me?More than a good tip
at the Wilshire
Country Club
and not as much
as an appeal?
Hey, easy.You paid that witness
to change his story.That's absurd. Maia!
The bribery of a witness
carries serious time
in state prison,
Mr. Lambert.
Mm-hmm. Talk to my lawyer,
the one that beat you
in court.
I did just kick your ass.
I'm not letting this go,
Amy.
It was good
to see you, Mark.
♪♪♪
I've got calls
into our office
to get an immigration attorney,
but I can't tell you when
they're gonna get back to us.
The backlog is insane,
and they're spread out
all over the county.
You're my lawyer.
I trust you.
I appreciate that, but--
Okay.
In the meantime, tell me--
I came across
at Tijuana.
I had counterfeit papers.
In Nicaragua, the government
has become a dictatorship,
grabbing land,
attacking
basic human rights.
We were protesting.
They responded
with arrests, torture.
Uh, we. Who's we?
I need you
to be more specific, Leo.
Union de estudiantesat the Polytech.
I was one of the leaders.
We were peaceful.
I love my country.
It is very important
to me.
But I can't return.
We were attacked
by the police.
Some of my friends were
murdered in the streets.
I understand.
And so you came here.
Asylum?
I was hoping
to apply for asylum,
but, with new rules,
there's no chance.
They'd lock me up
and deport me.
I couldn't risk it.
But, Leo, once you got here,
you didn't stop protesting.
I know.
Why?
Why put yourself
in the spotlight?
Trust me, I've been asking
myself the same question.
It's just...
[ sighs ]
it's who I am.
I can't stand by.
I just can't do it.
What?
And I fell in love.
Ah.
Big mistake.
Mm, that's it.
There's the real reason.
Hmm.
Yeah, that's trouble.
♪♪♪
You're going after
the father?
He bribed my witness.
Can you prove it?
Not yet, but I will.Let it go.
Five giant stacks
of files waiting,
and five stacks officially
makes a mountain.
Move on.We can't move on.
Callan, you've been in this job
for what, like a month?
And already I can see
that beneath that calm,
quiet demeanor,
you've got a bit of an issue
with authority--mine.
Actually,
I have an issue
with investment bankers
from Hancock Park
buying justice.
[ chatter ]
Thomas, this is--
it's fundamental.
Either the District Attorney's
office thinks
that the truth matters,
or it doesn't.
So go after the valet
for perjury.
The valet is poor.
He's scared.
He's not the bad guy
here.
You don't want to go
after him because what,
you think he's just
being a good dad?
That's not what I think, but
that's what a jury might think.
He did it for his daughter.
No big deal.
Just bought out
a little victimless crime.
This is not a good father.
I hear you, Callan,
and I'm not indifferent.
Really? 'Cause it feels like
you're a little indifferent.
Grant Lambert
has been investigated
by the Securities Commission
a half a dozen times,
and nothing has stopped.
Not my circus, not my monkey.
This guy is the enemy!
Not your monkey, Mark.
I want the monkey.
Show me the monkey!
♪♪♪
Well, for that...
and because you clearly have
some daddy issues of your own
you need to sort out,
I'll throw it to one
of our investigators.
If they smell something,
they should bring it to me.
Now go back to your mountain.
♪♪♪
Normally, there'd be
a place for you to sit.
I'm not being inhospitable.
Just still getting organized.
I can tell. And congrats.
Hell of a promotion.
You know who I am.
I do my homework.
Ambitious, young
African-American female DDA
gets thrust onto the bench.
Looks good on everyone.
I'm glad you accepted
my invitation to talk quietly.
Love to talk. Let's talk.
Mr. Soto, you are not
an ignorant man.
I'm sure that you're aware
that California is
a sanctuary state,
which means
undocumented--
I know what it means.
So then okay,
we know what we mean.
Perhaps you could
explain why you...
There is one way
to get me out, ma'am.
"Your Honor"
or "Judge Carmichael."
And do not interrupt me.
Courthouses
work well for us, okay?
Ahem. The targets
are already screened...
Excuse me. Targets?
Ah, Judge Carmichael,
there are laws.
If these targets
are afraid
that you are going
to be here--
So you can interrupt me?
That's right,
because this is my house.
I had a partner.
Stabbed at a raid.
I have been shot at.
This is a safe place
for us to do our job,
our duty.
It is my duty to make sure
that you don't use
these courts
as a stock pond
because people need
to believe
that this is a just place.
If citizens--
Citizens?
People, then.
If people think
they'll be deported,
they won't show up.
Witnesses will refuse
to testify.
Defendants will skip bail.
Crimes will go unreported.
Obstruction of justice
is a federal offense.
Excuse me?
It is a federal crime
to corruptly obstruct,
influence, or impede
on any official proceeding
or attempt to do so.
This can carry a sentence
of 20 years.
A threat?
Statement of fact.
I'll take my chances.
And since we are dealing
in facts,
anyone who refuses to adhere
to the court's orders,
attempts to interfere
with the court's proceedings--
Judge Carmichael,
the people
that give me my orders
are, uh, humorless.
How about you finish
your job
so I can do mine?
He could be your nephew.He's not.
You don't feel
a connection to them?
Some empathy?
How many people
have you put in jail
that could have been
your brother?
Or your son?
Mr. Soto, if you so much
as set foot
in my courtroom,
I will charge you
with contempt
and you will go to jail.
Statement of fact.
♪♪♪
[ door closes ]
I haven't heard anything
from anyone.
So no reports of other ICE
agents in other courtrooms?
No, and we're, like,
always texting.
[ chuckles ]
Not about the trials.
About, like,
cool restaurants
and podcasts.[ phone dings, buzzes ]
Thanks, Sara.
But people have heard
what's happening.
Lawyers are asking
for continuances.
Defendants are being
told not to show up.
It's getting kind of crazy.
I think I saw someone
hiding in the bathroom.
Sounds like a drama.
Judge Rogstad.
Judge Carmichael.
Ms. Kansky.
Hey, when you're ready
to play the bigs,
come over to my court.
We have Pizza Night.
I'll keep that in mind,
Your Honor.
I love what you've done
with the place,
making it your own--
exotic.
What, the pillows?
Okay, let's go.
The ICE thing--
appreciate it
if you don't drag
the rest of us
into
your little theatrical.
I'd think you would be
just as concerned about
this situation as I am.
Not everyone
in this building
thinks like you,
Judge Carmichael.
To assume that only
reveals your youth.
It's not like we don't
have enough customers
to keep us all busy.
My advice--pull the thorn
and keep walking.
♪♪♪
[ gasps ]
What the hell happened
in 802 this morning?
Why? What did you hear?
It's not what I heard.
It's what I saw.
Who's the prosecutor?
It's, uh, Katie Malick.
She was talking to some guy
in the bullpen--
about six feet tall,
buzz cut, very ICE-like.
Are you serious?
What the hell is going on
in that office?
Are you all collaborators?
Oh, my God, you sound
just like your mother.
[ phone buzzes, beeps ][ gasps ]
Mark Callan.
I do not sound
like my mother.
That's just me.
[ whispering ]
I love Roxie.
I do, too. Still me.
Mark Callan. Hello.
Oh. Hi.
Great.
You're here?
Okay.
Okay, yeah.
I'll be right there.
Great.
Got a very expensive
defense attorney
waiting for me in my office.
Amy Quinn.
How'd you know?
That smile.
You always had a thing
for Quinn.
Not true.
Okay, not true.
What else do you know
about my ICE guy?
One of the guys
in my office said
the ICE agent
convinced Katie
that her future
as a government attorney
would look a lot brighter
if she could make that case
go away.
That same agent threatened
to put me in jail
for 20 years.
That's not gonna happen.Gets your attention, though.
He was just picking on you
'cause you're the rookie.
I hate bullies.
So punch back.
The robes keep getting
in the way.
Just do what's right.
That's what you'd
tell me to do.
Sorry. I really have to--
Go.
The Mighty Quinn awaits.
Ha ha ha.
♪♪♪
Judge Carmichael seemed
to be on your side.
She might have been,
but there are no guarantees,
especially now.
I'm trying to reach
an immigration lawyer.
Can you hold this,
please?
Thank you.Why don't you wheel around
one of those
big black suitcases
like all the other lawyers?
'Cause this isn't an airport
and my client files aren't
luggage. And they're ugly.
Emily.What can I do for you, Katie?
Is the bailiff
holding your bag?
No.
Anyway, we're dropping
the charges.
What?Made a mistake.
Client's free to go.
Okay?
Katie.
You win.
Congratulations.
Wait. Why?
Because
it was a time suck.
Because I don't like
surprise visits
from big, beefy guys
with big badges,
and because I was losing.
We need to talk
to Judge Carmichael.
Is she--I'll check in
with the JA.
You know what you're doing,
right?
My client will be sent
back to a country
that is killing kids
for walking down the street
shouting slogans.
Might want
to think about that.
Ahem.
♪♪♪
[ chatter ]
I was expecting a call
from your assistant,
or a snarky email.
I had a motion, so...
Good.
I mean, I'm glad.
And I've never actually
been in these offices.
I always thought
I would end up here.
Yeah?
What happened with that?
Oh, you know,
student loans,
L.A. real estate,
the whole thing.
Your message said you wanted
to interview Maia Lambert.
Yeah.So you're really doing this.
You're gonna go
after her dad?
He bribed a witness.
"A," no, he didn't.
The valet
just made a mistake.
And "B,"
why would you think
Maia would incriminate
her own father?
The valet did not
make a mistake,
and you know that
as well as I do.
And frankly, Amy, the fact
that you're standing
behind Grant Lambert
is not a good look.
Okay. I should go.
If we found out you had
something to do with this, Amy,
you won't just be disbarred.
You'll go to jail.
Well, that's a big gun.
I thought
we liked each other.
This is in no way
an admission.
Understood.
You can have 15 minutes
with Maia.
My office. That's it.
I'll take it.You know, Callan,
there are a lot of guys
like you at my firm.
If you ever wanted
to cross the street,
you can make a lot of money.
It's not a compliment.
♪♪♪
But if I have to do it...
They're both here?
Yes, Your Honor.
Thanks, Luke.
Before you go in,
may I say something?
Since when do you ask?
That kid Leo,
he has a lawyer.
Let Ms. Lopez
take care of him.
He is in my court.
ICE is just doing
what they do.
What they're doing
is wrong.
It's not new. You are.
This affects everyone
in the building, Your Honor.
Don't try to fix
what you didn't break.
It's not your job.
What?
You're trying to protect me.
Why are you doing that
to your face?
Because you like me.
No. It's just I don't
have it in me
to break in another judge.
That's practically a hug.
♪♪♪
Counselors,
make yourselves comfortable.
Sorry. I don't know
where to sit.
Your Honor, the prosecution
is throwing its case.
They're dropping all charges.
How is that throwing?
We made a determination
that the case is not worth
moving forward with...
Tell her the truth.That is the truth.
The second
they drop the charges,
ICE will detain
and deport my client.
What ICE does
is not our business.
And you don't get
to direct my strategy.
It's not your strategy.
It's theirs.
You caved, and now
Leo has to pay the price.
Katie, I'm going
to ask you a question.
Yes or no.
Are you ready?
Sure.
Have you spoken
or communicated
with Agent Sal Soto about
what to do with this case?
Next question.
Who do you work for?
The people of the state
of California.
That's right. The people,
not the federal government.
Katie, I know most days
this feels like
an adversarial system,
and it is,
but the truth is
we are actually
on the same team,
going for the same goal--
justice.
And a team is only
as strong as its...
God, what's the rest
of that quote?
It's a quote?Of course. Sports quote.
It'll come to me.
But the point is, Katie,
do your job, not theirs.
Your Honor--
Weakness!
The team is only as strong
as its weakest link.
Sorry. It was gonna
drive me crazy.
So, Katie, what would
the people wish you'd do next?
Better question.
Malick is...
I'm guessing Irish?
Your family immigrated here
about a hundred years ago.
Am I close?
My great-grandparents.
Hmm.
What would they wish you
to do next?
Uh, they would want me
to proceed with the trial.
Good.
We'll see you in court.
♪♪♪
Mr. Lambert.
Why am I not surprised?
Maia asked him to be present.
Afraid what your daughter
might say?
It's okay. I'll step out.
You good with that, Maia?
Be right outside.
Please.
Let me be clear.
Maia is doing this
voluntarily.
She is cooperating because
she has nothing to hide.
Did you know Parin Kothari was
gonna change his testimony?
She did not.
Did your father offer
any material benefit
to induce Mr. Kothari
to change his testimony?
Were you aware
of any such plan?
No and no.
I'd like to hear it from Maia.
My father's a crook, too.
You hate what he does for you,
how he does it,
but you almost
kind of admire it.
And you want
to protect him.
What exactly--I mean, they have
the power, right?
That can cut a couple of ways.
We both know that.
Ask a question,
or you can leave.
I'm gonna make you
a promise, Maia--full immunity.
All you have to do
is tell the truth,
which I'm guessing
you want to do anyway
'cause you're not like him,
are you?
The existential questions
you don't have to answer.
In fact, you don't have to
answer any of them
if you don't want to.
♪♪♪
Just think about it, Maia.
I didn't know that
about your dad.
♪♪♪
I talked to the sheriff.And?
Reminded him
of his campaign promise
to keep ICE
out of our courthouses.
And what did he say?
Not much.
But he's smarter
than to let Immigration
walk in
wearing a black hat.
He'd tell them to use
undercover proxies.
Whoever called ICE,
it wasn't him.
And you? I'm assuming
you haven't smuggled
the defendant out
under that robe.
The DDA wanted
to drop the charges.
That would be the end of it.
After a short meeting,
she reconsidered.
Oh. So it continues.
Judge Benner, I am trying
to figure out
the right thing to do here.
We can't help ICE.
No. But you can't delay
the game indefinitely.
Are the parties
ready to reconvene?
Yeah.Then finish your trial,
and we'll take it
from there.
And the ICE man,
he will cometh.
Yeah, but he can sitteth
outside and waiteth.
♪♪♪
Leo:
What are my options?
You don't have
any good ones, Leo.
What are my bad ones?
I managed to get a hold
of one of our people
in Immigration,
and they said,
on this timeline...
What?
Plead guilty.
Request immediate
sentencing hearing,
then get the DDA
to ask for the maximum--
four years.
In prison?
It buys you four years
to see if you can find
asylum in another country,
four years to see
if an immigration lawyer
can find a way to have
your case retried.
And four years with Kimani.
She can visit you.
Yeah.
I can't recommend this, Leo.
State prison is not
a good place, and...
It's better
than a Nicaraguan jail
or getting killed.
Uh...
I was arrested
for no reason.
I'm innocent.
I know.
I'll do the four years.
Leo.
I'm sure. I really am.
♪♪♪
Thanks for coming.
I can't talk to you
without your lawyer present,
Maia.
Amy, it's Maia.
You're fired. Sorry.
Did you mean what you said
about immunity?
Sure. Maia...
I stole the car.
I was drunk. I was upset.
I just had this massive
fight with my dad
about basically
what a giant ass he is.
Anyway, uh, is there maybe
some kind of community service
that I could do?
Is that stupid?
No, but it's not
really justice, is it?
I mean, who are you
accountable to? Me?
It's not how this works.
He does this stuff
just to show that he can,
that he's above the law,
above everyone.
It's arrogance.
Walking through the world
like he owns it.
And now he's pulled me
into that.
I hate it.
Mine was a bookie.
He was a lot of things,
none of them legal,
but one of them was a bookie.
And he always kept a tab.
So I'm 17, and my dad--
his name's Vic--
he was indicted,
and Vic needed
an alibi witness.
So I stood up in court,
and I lied.
Hand on the Bible,
and I lied for him.
Not many people know that.
You get caught?
Nope.
That's a bit
of a head-spinner.
I let him turn me into
something that I wasn't
because I didn't think
I had a choice.
You have a choice, Maia.
Who do you want to be
in the world?
How important do you want
the truth to be in your life?
What do you want to see
when you look in the mirror?
Your face or his?
♪♪♪
All rise.
Department 61
of the Los Angeles
Superior Court
is now in session.
Judge Lola Carmichael
presiding.
Welcome back, everyone.
Let's settle in.
Ms. Lopez, as you were.
Your Honor,
the defendant would like
to change his plea
to guilty.
In the middle
of the proceedings?
Your Honor, the People
accept the plea
and ask that we move
immediately to sentencing.
We intend to ask
for the maximum sentence
of four years.
Both of you, get up here.
Oh, my God.
Seriously, you'd put this man
in prison for four years?
It's the best I can do
right now.
When he's there,
we'll find a country
who'll grant him asylum.
You don't think
that's a long shot?
For the record,
I think
it's a terrible idea,
Your Honor.
No, your idea was
to sell out to ICE
to close a file.Okay, go sit down.
Go.
Mr. Guerra.
You understand
that a felony conviction
makes you ineligible
for legal immigration
into the United States?
Yes, Your Honor.
After four years in prison,
ICE will be notified,
and you will be
immediately deported.
Yes, Your Honor.
♪♪♪
Your Honor?
Recess.
Court's adjourned
until tomorrow.
♪♪♪
I didn't know what else...
If something happens
to Leo in prison--
You didn't make that guy
come here without papers.
You didn't prevent him
for applying for asylum.
No. That was poverty,
government corruption,
global capitalism--
Beating yourself up isn't
gonna solve the border crisis.
I'm not trying
to solve the bo--
Hmm.
My client was not guilty,
but his best case scenario
is four years hard time
because someone narc'd
on him.[ phone jangles ]
Hello. Kimani?
Slow down.
Where are you?
I'll be right there.
I--
I...
What?
♪♪♪
Kimani?
Ms. Lopez, over here!
You're her lawyer?What are you doing?
You can't
detain this woman.
This woman was trespassing.
You want me
to call the police, I will.
Kimani.
She was banned
from the store.
I wanted to show the judge
what we were doing,
putting warning stickers
on the expired food.
Scaring customers.
Hey.
It's rotten meat.It's perfectly edible.
You people--She and her
boyfriend broke the law.
"You people"?
Coming in here--
Did you seriously
just say that?
Get this girl out of here.
Mr. Harris, did you call
Immigration about Leo Guerra?
Yeah. Why wouldn't I?
They come here,
and the first thing
they do
is complain
on their social media.
You called--
I can barely keep
this place open.
He's the one? He called?I know what he did.
Let's go. Come on.
♪♪♪
You have a guilty plea
and a sentence recommendation.
I do.So why aren't you taking it?
If I can find a misdemeanor
that fits the fact pattern...
A nonviolent misdemeanor.
Yep.
Very creative.
A fraction of the time,
and ICE won't be notified
upon his release.
You're gonna be one
of those creative judges.
You say it
like it's a bad thing.
You really want
to make this your fight?
Of course I don't want
to fight the entire
federal government,
but I will.
Your Honor--What choice do I have?
If I don't save this
young man's life, who will?
This is my house.
It's my court.
And it has to be
a safe place for everyone,
and if they want
to come in here
and start throwing punches,
well, then I am gonna
punch back.
If you think
that that's stupid
or career suicide,
then so be it.
I didn't say it was stupid.
I said it was creative.
♪♪♪
It's late, Sherri.
You should go home.
I go home when you go home,
Your Honor.
I'll be in my office
if you need me.
♪♪♪
Okay, we are back
on the record.
Your Honor, I'd like
to move for a mistrial.
Pardon me? On what basis?
Permission to approach?
Expired May 2018.
Baby formula.
Expired three years ago.
Your Honor, my client
Leo Guerra and his partner
were affixing warnings
to these products
to alert their community
about their risks.
In retaliation,
the manager of the supermarket,
Mr. Dwight Harris,
brought hell down upon them,
first by reporting
to the police
his security personnel
have been attacked.
Then, during this trial,
he also decided
to contact ICE
in a vindictive effort
to have Mr. Guerra deported.
Your Honor, I wish I could
cite specific case law,
but frankly
what has happened here
is so audacious
that there's nothing on point.
But the facts speak
for themselves.
The second Mr. Harris decided
to override the justice system
by summoning ICE
into this courtroom,
my client's Constitutionally
guaranteed right
to a fair trial
was violated in such a profound
and fundamental way
that the interests of justice
simply require a mistrial.
♪♪♪
You know,
I think we might need
to take another recess.
♪♪♪
Ms. Lopez, I don't think
that a mistrial would
benefit your client.
Your Honor, Leo would
remain in custody,
safe from deportation.
It would allow him time
to meet with
an immigration attorney.
Hang on. You said he affixed
warnings on the food?
Uh, yeah.
They had stickers.
Stickers. Tell me
about these stickers.
They had them printed up,
put them on things
to warn customers
about the spoiled--
Unauthorized writing.
Found it.
Section 6402.
"Placing unauthorized writing
on a consumer product."
A nonviolent misdemeanor.
Would mean
a much shorter sentence
and preserve Leo's chance
for asylum.
And the sheriff
would be prohibited
from disclosing
his release date to ICE.
If the People wish
to drop the felony charges
and the defense agrees
to plead guilty
to a lesser charge,
then the court
can certainly entertain
such an agreement.
The people are entirely
amenable to that, Your Honor.
Ms. Lopez?
I think
we can make that work.
♪♪♪
Excuse me.
You bullied my daughter.
You intimidated her
into making a statement.
You worked her.Dad, stop it.
It was entirely
her choice, Mr. Lambert.
It's never your fault,
is it?
Maia.
Well, I'm not
gonna be like you.
I'm done.
All rise.
District 61
of the Los Angeles
Superior Court
is now in session.
Judge Lisa Benner
presiding.
Be seated.
What's the big emergency?
We just filed a single count
felony complaint
for bribery of a witness.Really?
Your Honor, my client
would like to throw himself
at the mercy of the court
and plead guilty.
Well, then, Mr. Lambert,
to the charge
of bribery of a witness,
in violation of Penal Code
Section 137 Subdivision A,
how do you plead?Guilty, Your Honor.
Then I find
the defendant guilty.
With regards to sentencing--
Your Honor,
my client would like
to address the court,
if he may.
Sure. Go ahead.
Your Honor, I take
full responsibility
for my actions,
but I stand before you
to say that I have
learned something,
learned
from my daughter Maia
about principles
and consequences.
I give you my solemn promise
that I will change,
devoting my time
and much of my resources
to legal aid clinics
and doing good works
in disadvantaged communities
in the greater
Los Angeles area.
Deputy District Attorney
Callan?
The People recommend
16 months state prison,
Your Honor.
Mr. Lambert,
you have launched an attack
on our most sacred
institution.
If men like you are allowed
to buy their own justice
at so little cost
to themselves,
we might as well
all pack it in.
I hereby sentence you
to two years in state prison.
No credits.
Defendant is remanded
into custody.
♪♪♪
[ gavel bangs ]
Hands behind your back,
sir.
I want you to get on this.
♪♪♪
Bailiff: Come this way.
[ door opens ]
I hope
I did the right thing.
You did the right thing.
I guess.
No, I mean it.
I--I wish
I had the courage
to say those things
to my dad.
Well...
yet at least I can look myself
in the mirror now, right?
[ sighs ]
With all that considered,
how do you plead?
Guilty, Your Honor.
Your Honor,
per the agreement,
the defendant has waived
his pre-sentence report.
The proposed sentence
is three months.
Well, any second thoughts?
And are you sure you want me
to approve this agreement?
Yes, Your Honor.
Okay, then, any objections?
No, Your Honor.No, Your Honor.
Then it is the order
of this court
that such sentence be imposed.
The defendant
is remanded into custody
for three months only.
Court is adjourned.
[ gavel bangs ]
Leo, good luck.
Thank you, Your Honor,
for everything.
♪♪♪
♪ I'm amazed♪
Okay. It's okay. Say goodbye.
♪ Humbly I pray♪
♪ I'm just trying
to find my way♪
♪ I had to think about
all the times of doubt♪
♪ And all the beauty parts
are beauty scars now♪
♪ I had to let you fade away♪
I'm so tired. [ laughs ]
I haven't been--
Apparently, my apartment
has turned on me.
I have no idea
what that means.
Right? Also, these shoes
have zero arch support.
You can tell my stress level
by the height of my heels.
Easy-peasy plea deal,
comfy flats.
These--These are
my ass kickers.
Hmm.
Murder on the feet
but perfect
for the big battles.
Like if I'm trying
to solve America's
border security issues.
Okay. Look--
Or something.
No, it's okay.I just want you to know
I didn't think that the ICE guy
could be in here, either.
Good, 'cause if you did,
then I'd have to burn
your law school flash cards.
Oh, okay, okay.
You don't want to argue?
You're gonna be
a terrible lawyer.
I like to argue.Just not with me.
I'm happy to argue with you.
Good, then we can be friends.
♪ It's simply divine♪
♪ I believe♪
♪ I believe one day♪
♪ All mistakes
will be explained♪
♪ And I think of why
leaving you behind♪
♪ Didn't satisfy
that it was more kind♪
♪ But it would save
myself for...♪
How do you keep
getting back here?
I have my ways.
After your big dustup
with the feds today,
I thought you might want
to go for a drink.
I'd love to, but work.
You kicked the federal
government's ass today.
Did I? I didn't mean to.
Maybe I did.
How did it feel?
Not as great as LeBron
in Game 7 in Oakland
but all right.
How'd it go for you today?
A rare win
for the good guys.
I know you've been,
you know, nesting,
so I thought a housewarming
gift might be in order.
You can say you got it
from a cousin or something.
What did you get me?
[ gasps ]
Uhura.
The star in my sky.
My goddess.
She made me feel
like I could be anybody.
I know. I had to sit
through endless episodes
with you during college.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
So okay, so do I have
daddy issues?
Uh, yeah.
Yeah, I do, right?
Call Vic.
Maybe he'll be up
for a drink tonight.
Okay. I got to go.
Uh, may the force
be with you?
No!
♪ ...feelin'♪
♪ It's higher than helium♪
♪ To try and figure out why♪
Welcome home.
♪ It's simply divine♪
Captioned by
Los Angeles Distribution
and Broadcasting, Inc.